The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Answer, by Emil Petaja

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Answer

Author: Emil Petaja

Release Date: May 01, 2021 [eBook #65220]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ANSWER ***




                              THE ANSWER

                            By Emil Petaja

                He had strangled Lisa many times in his
           dreams. But always, as she died, the phone rang.
           Did he dare to pick it up and answer the call?...

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                            September 1951
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


The room was dark. It was always dark, so dark he couldn't see the
bed, the soft wide bed with the plum satin headpiece that was studded
with cushioned buttons, and the triangle of chiffon that was draped
elegantly from the ceiling. The Venetian blinds were shut tight, so
that not even the blackness of the black summer's night could be seen.

John Reeve couldn't see the bed, and he also couldn't see his tall self
in the modern half-moon mirror of his wife's dressing table across from
him. Most of all he couldn't see her--Lisa, his wife.

But he could hear and smell. He could hear Lisa breathing softly. He
could scent her intoxicating perfume which clung to the hot windless
air of the room. Then there was the uneven pounding of his own
heart--that told him he _was_ here, here in his wife's apartment.

It was so late. It was that dark hour when the planets themselves
sleep, couched against their black bed of space. It was that dark hour
when illusion takes hold and reality wavers in the balance.

Standing there, John Reeve forgot. He forgot--everything. Who he
was, where he had come from, what he was doing here in Lisa's uptown
apartment. He didn't belong here. Lisa didn't belong to him any more.
It was over. She belonged to--

Why? Why had she left him?

He couldn't remember. He tried, but he couldn't remember. He couldn't
even remember how he got in here. Had he stolen a key? Bribed the
red-head at the desk downstairs?

He couldn't even remember two minutes ago.

He stood there in the hot windless dark, listening to Lisa's soft
breathing, listening to the uneven rhythm of his heart. He sucked
in the heady perfume that he had reason to remember so well. He did
remember _that_. He saw rows of little bottles, lavender bottles, oddly
shaped bottles. Anniversaries. Birthdays. No special days. What was
it called? Tigress? Musetta? Jealousy? Maybe. Maybe that was it. He
couldn't remember concreteness, only things you _feel_ more than you
think about.

Why didn't Lisa ever open her window at night? Such a hot summer's
night as this?

He curved a little smile into the perfumed dark. Lisa had always been
like that. Always. No fresh air fiend Lisa. Lisa shrank from draughts
as from dragons. She always kept her windows shut tight at night. They
had quarrelled about that--too. Lisa loved warmth. She was like a
kitten snuggling cosily in front of the fire, a lissome tawny-haired
kitten.

And now.

       *       *       *       *       *

John Reeve sighed. Because now he remembered the one important thing he
had to remember. He remembered why he had come here, to Lisa's uptown
apartment, now in the darkest corner of the hot summer's night. All
in a rush it came to him, a rush of tremulous feeling. There was no
thought behind it. It was pure feeling. He didn't stop to analyze the
wherefores to any degree, or to catalog them neatly in the pigeonholes
of his brain. He just knew what he had to do and he did it.

He walked over to the bed and strangled Lisa.

It wasn't bad, but the long moment afterwards was.

The room was just the same. The windless heat, the jealous scent of
Lisa's perfume mingled with the scent of her tawny unseen hair. His
hands saw it though, blindly, so soft and silky under them. Lisa was so
still, she died so gently.

The silence, while he hung there over Lisa, barely touching her hair,
held as in a cup all the ache and the agony a man can endure.

[Illustration: As his fingers tightened he heard the insistent ringing
of Lisa's telephone....]

Then the telephone started to ring.

He didn't look at it. This sudden sound, shattering the cup of silence,
made him shudder.

It rang and rang.

_Answer it._

It was a prickling voice in his mind. No, it wasn't. It was a tiny
ghost that had hidden in the curve of his ear and was whispering into
his ear's cavern, then shouting merrily against the membrane of his
eardrum:

_Answer it!_

It was Lisa. He recognized her voice.

He pulled up sharply, tossing a heavy breath across the bed.

Lisa, you fool! If I answer it, then they'll know I was here. They'll
say I killed you and they'll strap me down in a chair and send
ten-million volts of electricity through me and I'll be as dead as you
are.

The voice changed now. It wheedled, it caressed, it coaxed him. It
made a joke out of it. Then--

_Please answer the telephone, darling. You know I can't stand to leave
it ring like that. It's somehow--sacrilegious. Please, darling._

It was true. If Lisa were alive she wouldn't leave her telephone
ringing like that, never. That was one thing Lisa was meticulous,
even fetishistic, about. She might not be so meticulous about other
things, such as husbands, but she invariably flew to the telephone
when it rang. She used to lie on her silken bed and talk to it for
hours, caressing it with her long red-tipped fingers. Lisa had loved
the telephone. She had loved it above everything else. Maybe more than
John. What do you mean, maybe? Of course she loved it more than she
loved John!

He didn't move, so the ghost in his ear began to taunt him.

_You always used to want to know who was calling me, John. You used to
insist on knowing. You used to try to beat me to the telephone. Well,
now's your chance_--

John Reeve stiffened. That was true, too. All too humiliatingly true.
He made a rough noise in his throat, then brushed a hand across the
darkness. He located the telephone by its impudent burring. He reached
for it--and almost had it.

Then he woke up.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of course it was only a dream. Of course! He hadn't really killed Lisa.
It was only this dream he kept on having over and over and over. A man
could go out of his mind--

And always the same. That was why he couldn't remember going to Lisa's
apartment, or getting in, or anything like that. Just being there,
feeling the oppressive summer heat, the dark silence, scenting Lisa's
jealous perfume, wondering why she never opened a window, and then
strangling Lisa.

But the telephone was the worst thing.

He didn't like to strangle Lisa, it was definitely not the act of
a gentleman, and John Reeve considered himself a gentleman. He was
never crude, at least. When Lisa said casually one night after dinner.
"Darling, I'm leaving you," he didn't exactly yawn but put something of
the effect of a yawn into his smile. "Are you, dear?" He was too much
of a gentleman to try to hold her if she wanted to go, even for one day.

But it hurt. It had clawed his heart all that night, and the next, and
all the next nights until--

Of all the things that tortured him in his dream, the telephone was by
far the worst. Why, why, why did the dream have to end just there? It
was just as Lisa, or Lisa's ghost in the dream, said. He was curious.
He had to know. It was driving him crazy not to know. Once he thought
that by straining at the dream and forcing it to go on, his fingers
did actually contact the cold surface of the telephone. But he wasn't
sure. He wasn't sure.

More and more the dream obsessed him. Like a succubus it drained him,
and pummelled him, and lay heavily on him. He did other things; his
existence must have included innumerable other things such as eating,
brushing his teeth, bathing, working. Working, of course. Working at
what? Sometimes he thought vaguely that it had to do with fuel. But
what did that matter? The dream was the only thing that mattered! It
was the important factor in his miserable existence!

Always the same. Always the telephone ringing, just after he strangled
Lisa. Always the little ghost in his ear. He tried to reach the
telephone. He strained hard, but he never could, not quite. It was the
damndest thing.

Oh, it must have been eons, at least, before the dream began to edge
in his favor. Perceptibly, the dream began to last longer. Each time
he fought to keep the dream going. That was the only way he would ever
know. The conclusion of the dream lay in his actually picking up that
telephone and finding out who was calling. He had to know.

Lisa's ghost pleaded and begged him to answer it. Her telephone mania
in life had extended itself beyond the grave. She had to know, too.

_Answer it, darling. You always have to know everything...._

No, damn you! He fought her, at first. Then they'll know I was here!
They'll pin your murder on me! They'll strap me in a chair and--

All the same, he knew he had to answer that telephone, no matter what
happened. Lisa had always teased him about his curiosity in the matters
of her many telephone calls. It was the not-knowing that was sheer
torture--

Finally it came.

Finally.

       *       *       *       *       *

The room was quite dark, it was always dark. He couldn't see the bed,
the soft wide bed with the plum satin headpiece that was studded
with cushioned buttons, and the triangle of chiffon that was draped
elegantly from the ceiling. The venetian blinds were shut tight, the
summer heat was stifling, it was like an impenetrable wall.

But he could hear and smell. He could hear Lisa breathing softly. He
could scent the madness of her perfume. He couldn't remember how he
came here, now in the night's darkest corner.

Why doesn't Lisa ever open her window? Such a hot summer's night.

Lisa. Warm, cosy little Lisa. Like a tawny kitten curled up by the
fire. She could never stand a single breath of cold air. Maybe that was
why. Maybe some of his words were breaths of cold air. In the beginning
everything had been so warm and cosy. Then--coolness, coldness. Why
weren't you here when I telephoned today? You're always so careful to
answer the telephone. Why not _me_? Who was the man that called you on
the telephone while you were out? Not your hairdresser! Not again!

Then Lisa went away.

John Reeve curved a smile into the darkness and walked to the bed and
strangled Lisa.

Then the long silence before the telephone rang. It was so hot. His
forehead was sticky. So frightfully hot here, without a single open
window.

_Brrrrr._

_Answer it. Answer it, darling!_

Why was Lisa so anxious, perched there on his earlobe? Why? Only
because she'd always been fanatical about answering telephones while
she was alive and that now, dead, she clung to her fetish. Or--was it
to tantalize him into making his presence here in her apartment at the
time of her death known, so that the police--

_Answer it. Answer it, darling!_

He reached for it in the darkness. This time he strained harder than
ever. This time he reached it. He had to. He had to know. No matter
what happened he had to know. It was driving him crazy. Surely such a
torture must have an end.

He made it. His hand grasped the telephone and held on to it grimly. He
put it to his ear in triumph.

"Hello?" he told it. "Hello!"

Silence. The room was a cup of black silence.

"Hello!" he shouted. "Who is this? Tell me who this is!"

There was a low wisp of laughter. It might have been the instrument, or
it might have come from Lisa's tiny ghost, still perched on his earlobe.

"Who is it?" he demanded.

"Central office," answered a voice like the largest pipe in a church
organ. "Satan speaking."

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ANSWER ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
